README.md, before:

# AndcultureCode.Cli
`and-cli` command-line tool to manage the development of software applications.

## Getting started
From the root of the cloned or forked repository, run this command:
```
npm install && ./cli.js install
```

What this does:
1. Installs a global version of the npm package
2. Creates an alias `and-cli` for the installed version of the npm package in your project, which defaults to globally installed package if not installed for project
3. Creates an alias `and-cli-dev` for the running the cli while developing for it, via the directory in which you cloned or forked the repository


To install `and-cli` only for the current project, run this in its root directory:
```
# npm
npm install --save-dev and-cli

# yarn
yarn add and-cli --dev
```
To install the CLI globally, do:
```
# npm
npm install and-cli -g

# yarn
yarn global add and-cli
```
The documentation for `and-cli` can be found in [COMMANDS.md](./COMMANDS.md).


## Troubleshooting

### Value for command arguments are out of order
Depending upon the shell/terminal you are using, the node process sometimes requires the `--` delimiter between the command and the arguments. Otherwise, especially in a shell like windows command prompt, the value for arguments gets piped out of order.

Example:
* Before: `and-cli dotnet --cli "test db migrate"`
    * Works in most shells, but requires the arguments to be in quotes. Fails in windows command prompt
* After: `and-cli dotnet -- --cli test db migrate`
    * Portable and doesn't require quotes

### Command listed in documentation is not found or functioning as expected
If you are using the project alias, check to make sure the version in your `package.json` is up to date. You can ensure the latest is installed by running:
```
npm install --save-dev and-cli@latest
```

If you don't have the package installed in your project and you're using a global package, you can check the current version with:
```
npm list -g --depth=0 | grep and-cli
```

The latest version can be installed by running:
```
npm install --global and-cli@latest
```

Commit message:

Issue #29 - POSIX path conversion fix; Successfully syncing source local path to remote Amazon S3 path

README.md, after:

# AndcultureCode.Cli
`and-cli` command-line tool to manage the development of software applications.

## Getting started
From the root of the cloned or forked repository, run this command:
```
npm install && ./cli.js install
```

What this does:
1. Installs a global version of the npm package
2. Creates an alias `and-cli` for the installed version of the npm package in your project, which defaults to globally installed package if not installed for project
3. Creates an alias `and-cli-dev` for the running the cli while developing for it, via the directory in which you cloned or forked the repository


To install `and-cli` only for the current project, run this in its root directory:
```
# npm
npm install --save-dev and-cli

# yarn
yarn add and-cli --dev
```
To install the CLI globally, do:
```
# npm
npm install and-cli -g

# yarn
yarn global add and-cli
```
The documentation for `and-cli` can be found in [COMMANDS.md](./COMMANDS.md).


## Troubleshooting

### Leading slash auto-converted to absolute path
Due to POSIX auto path conversion if you have an argument that needs to start with a leading slash "/". Escape it with an additional slash "//".

Upon application startup the CLI will replace it with the single slash "/".

### Value for command arguments are out of order
Depending upon the shell/terminal you are using, the node process sometimes requires the `--` delimiter between the command and the arguments. Otherwise, especially in a shell like windows command prompt, the value for arguments gets piped out of order.

Example:
* Before: `and-cli dotnet --cli "test db migrate"`
    * Works in most shells, but requires the arguments to be in quotes. Fails in windows command prompt
* After: `and-cli dotnet -- --cli test db migrate`
    * Portable and doesn't require quotes

### Command listed in documentation is not found or functioning as expected
If you are using the project alias, check to make sure the version in your `package.json` is up to date. You can ensure the latest is installed by running:
```
npm install --save-dev and-cli@latest
```

If you don't have the package installed in your project and you're using a global package, you can check the current version with:
```
npm list -g --depth=0 | grep and-cli
```

The latest version can be installed by running:
```
npm install --global and-cli@latest
```
